# Notes on Front End Developer Roadmap 2024

**Reference(s)**:
- [Front End Developer Roadmap 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9He4UBLyk8Y&list=PLWKjhJtqVAbmMuZ3saqRIBimAKIMYkt0E) by [freeCodeCamp.org](https://freecodecamp.org/)

**Jump to:**
- [**Home Page**](/index.md)
- [Frontend Development](#frontend-development)
- [Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [How The Internet Works](#1-how-the-internet-works)
  - [Web Development](#2-web-development)
    - [HTML](#html-or-hypertext-markup-language-is-the-skeleton-of-a-website)
    - [CSS](#css-or-cascading-stylesheet-is-the-skin-of-a-website)
    - [JavaScript](#js-or-javascript-is-the-life-force-of-a-website)
- [Prompts and Language Models](#3-prompts-and-language-models)
- [Git and GitHub](#4-git--github)
- [Package Managers](#5-package-managers)
- [More JavaScript](#6-more-javascript)
- [Open Web Application Security Project](#7-open-web-application-security-project)
- [Learning Attitudes](#learning-attitudes)
- [**Note 2: How the Internet Works**](/02-how-the-internet-works/02-01.md)

## Frontend Development
- Focuses on *what people see* and *what people can interact with*.
- Runs through **HTML**, **CSS** and **Javascript**.
- Aims to create websites, web apps and applications that are user-friendly and cross-platform.

## Roadmap

### 1. How The Internet Works

> Learn the functions of Web Browsers, Web Engines, Websites, Web Applications, Electron Applications, Web Domains, Domain Name Systems, Servers & Protocols i.e. HTTP

### 2. Web Development
#### **HTML** or *Hypertext Markup Language* is the skeleton of a website.
> Setup a Code Editor, and create a structured website, web app or application with links, headers, paragraphs, images and etc. by using tags and attributes like ```<code>...</code>```.

#### **CSS** or *Cascading Stylesheet* is the skin of a website.
> Ensure that a website, web app or application is functional, pleasing to the eyes, and works on personal computers and mobile devides.

#### **JS** or *JavaScript* is the life force of a website.
> Add animations, authorize payments, fetch data, validate forms and many more.

### 3. Prompts and Language Models
> Use prompts in ChatGPT, Google Bard and other Large Language Models (LLM).

### 4. Git & GitHub

> Learn Git and Github for managing repositories and version control systems, tracking changes, collaborating with other developers, code-sharing, deployment, and reverting to previous versions when things go wrong with the new one.

### 5. Package Managers

> Learn Node Package Manager or Yarn to install, update, remove, manage and modify package that are necessary for the development. 

### 6. More JavaScript

> Modern websites require sustainability and reusability, efficiency and enhanced performance, and maintainability.

|Programs|Information|
|--------|-----------|
|Bootstrap|Grid System, Pre-designed Components|
|SASS| CSS Advanced Styling|
|React Native|Developing cross-platform applications|
|Tailwind|CSS for rapid UI development <br/> Reduces the need for custom CSS|
|Byte|Transpile, Minify, Bundle Modules <br/> Ensure reliability and functionality|
|Jest|Unit Testing for JavaScript|
|Cypress|In-testing for JavaScript <br/> Minimize bugs, Enhance quality|
|TypeScript|A subset of JavaScript for static typing <br/> Potential issues are addressed before runtime|
|Restful API <br/> graphQL <br/> NextJS|Security-driven data management|
|AstroWeb|Introduces less JavaScript for faster load time|

> A well-designed website has optimized images, leveraged browser cache and minimized server response times. [Google Lighthouse](https://lighthous.google.com/)

### 7. Open Web Application Security Project
> Open Web  Application Security Project (OWASP)
guidelines assists developers on best practices in website security.

## Learning Attitudes
- Staying updated on the latest tech trends.
- Engaging with the tech community
- Experimenting with new tools
- Striving for Excellence

****
**Links**
- [**Home Page**](/index.md)
- [**Note 2: How the Internet Works**](/02-how-the-internet-works/02-01.md)








